doc: nordic: Added migration notes for clock separation change. (#28930)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/migration_guide_3.5.rst

.. _migration_3.5:

Migration notes for |NCS| v3.5.0 (Working draft)
################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 3

This document describes the changes required or recommended when migrating your application from |NCS| v3.4.0 to |NCS| v3.5.0.

.. HOWTO
   Add changes in the following format:
   Component (for example, application, sample or libraries)
   *********************************************************
   .. toggle::
      * Change1 and description
      * Change2 and description

.. _migration_3.5_required:

Required changes
****************

The following changes are mandatory to make your application work in the same way as in previous releases.

Clock control nrf deprecation
=============================

.. toggle::

  The :ref:`clock_control_api` driver has been updated for the following clocks on
  nRF52, nRF53, nRF91 and nRF54L Series devices:
  * HFCLK
  * LFCLK
  * XO
  * XO24M
  * HFCLK192M
  * HFCLKAUDIO

>   Legacy driver implementation can be restored by setting * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF` Kconfig to y.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The :ref:`clock_control_api` driver has been updated for the following clocks on nRF52, nRF53, nRF91, and nRF54L Series devices:

  * HFCLK
  * LFCLK
  * XO
  * XO24M
  * HFCLK192M
  * HFCLKAUDIO

  To restore the legacy driver implementation, set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF` to ``y``.
```

  Following steps are required to migrate code from |NCS| v3.4.0 to |NCS| v3.5.0:

  1. Individual clocks controlled by the application must be now explicitly enabled in the
     application-specific dts overlay file or board-specific overlay file, so that corresponding

>      driver is enabled :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The following steps are required to migrate code from |NCS| v3.4.0 to |NCS| v3.5.0:

  1. Individual clocks controlled by the application must now be explicitly enabled in the application-specific DTS overlay file or board-specific overlay file so that the corresponding driver is enabled.
     See the following example:

```

     .. code-block:: dts

        // if nRF54L XO is to be controlled
        &xo {
            status = "okay";
        };
        // if nRF52, nRF53 HFCLK is to be controlled
        &hfclk {
            status = "okay";
        };
        // if nRF52, nRF53, nRF91 or nRF54L LFCLK is to be controlled
        &lfclk {
            status = "okay";
        }
        // if HFCLK192M is to be controlled
        &hfclk192m {
            status = "okay";
        }
        // if XO24M is to be controlled
        &xo24m {
            status = "okay";
        }
        // if HFCLKAUDIO is to be controlled
        &hfclkaudio {
            status = "okay";
        }

>   2. Following Kconfigs names have changed and must be updated in the application config file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. The following Kconfig option names have changed and must be updated in the application configuration file:

```

    .. code-block:: cfg

>       :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_K32SRC_RC_CALIBRATION`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_K32SRC_RC_CALIBRATION`

Reviewer: please fix the indentation

      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_CALIBRATION_PERIOD`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_CALIBRATION_PERIOD`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_CALIBRATION_MAX_SKIP`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_CALIBRATION_MAX_SKIP`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_CALIBRATION_TEMP_DIFF`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_CALIBRATION_TEMP_DIFF`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_CALIBRATION_DEBUG`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_CALIBRATION_DEBUG`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_USES_TEMP_SENSOR`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_USES_TEMP_SENSOR`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_HFINT_CALIBRATION`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_HFINT_CALIBRATION`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_HFINT_CALIBRATION_PERIOD`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_HFINT_CALIBRATION_PERIOD`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRFX_CLOCK_USE_LFRC_CALIBRATION`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRFX_CLOCK_LFCLK_USE_LFRC_CALIBRATION`
      :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRFX_CLOCK_LF_CAL_ENABLED`->:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRFX_K32SRC_RC_CALIBRATION`

>   3. Following Kconfigs should be moved to dts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. The following Kconfig options must be moved to DTS:

```

    :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_K32SRC_FREQUENCY` -> DTS: nordic,nrfx-clock-lfclk: k32src-frequency
    :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_SOURCE` -> DTS: nordic,nrfx-clock-lfclk: k32src
    :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_ACCURACY_PPM` -> DTS: nordic,nrfx-clock-lfclk: k32src-accuracy-ppm
    :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_CONTROL_NRF_ACCURACY` -> DTS: nordic,nrfx-clock-lfclk: k32src-accuracy-ppm
    :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRFX_CLOCK_LFXO_TWO_STAGE_ENABLED` -> DTS: nordic,nrfx-clock-lfclk: k32src

  4. Following api use changes should be made:

    **mgr** - onoff manager created for nordic,nrf-clock, obtained using z_nrf_clock_control_get_onoff

    **dev** - nordic,nrf-clockcompatible device

    **sys** - subsystem for nordic,nrf-clock, it is no longer used in new clocks implementation

    **new_dev** - device compatible with one of following nodes: nordic,nrfx-clock-lfclk,nordic,nrfx-clock-hfclk,nordic,nrfx-clock-xo,nordic,nrfx-clock-hfclk192m,nordic,nrfx-clock-xo24m,nordic,nrfx-clock-hfclkaudio

>     **device** has to correspond to the sys used before the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. The following API usage changes must be made:

     * ``mgr`` - On-off manager created for ``nordic,nrf-clock`` and obtained using ``z_nrf_clock_control_get_onoff``.
     * ``dev``- ``nordic,nrf-clock`` compatible device.
     * ``sys`` - Subsystem for ``nordic,nrf-clock``.
       It is no longer used in the new clock implementation.
     * ``new_dev`` - Device compatible with one of the following nodes:

       * ``nordic,nrfx-clock-lfclk``
       * ``nordic,nrfx-clock-hfclk``
       * ``nordic,nrfx-clock-xo``
       * ``nordic,nrfx-clock-hfclk192m``
       * ``nordic,nrfx-clock-xo24m``
       * ``nordic,nrfx-clock-hfclkaudio``

     * device - Must correspond to the ``sys`` used before the change.
 
     See the following example:

```
